Meeting Date: 2023-03-07
Minutes taken by: Hugo Landau
Attendees:
    Matthias St. Pierre
    Dmitry Belyavskiy
    Shane Lontis
    Hugo Landau
    Paul Dale
    Nicola Tuveri
    Matt Caswell
    Tomas Mraz
    Richard Levitte

Agenda:
    * Nominate a minute taker and confirm agenda
    * Agree minutes from previous meeting
    * Review outstanding actions
    * Review issues with OTC hold (30 minutes)
    * Release discussion
    * Review outstanding security issues
    * Review draft technical policies
    * DRBG discussion
    * Agree agenda for next meeting
    * AOB

** Nominate a minute taker and confirm agenda

Hugo volunteered to take the minutes.
Proposed: Hugo, seconded: Pauli

Agenda for the meeting agreed. Proposed: Hugo, seconded: Tomas

** Agree minutes from previous meeting

Minutes from previous meeting were agreed. Proposed: Matt, seconded: Pauli

** Review outstanding actions

AI: Richard to create instructions on how to add an OTC member.
Not done

AI: Matt to create a proposal on return values and return value types for new code.
Not done

AI: Hugo to update the EC compression compatibility testing PR
    to test fewer curves. Use original commit message for Nicola's
    patch
Not done

AI: Hugo to propose possible solutions to make BIO_dgram more safe
Not done

AI: Hugo to revise CSM to allow application to artifically
    inject incoming QUIC datagrams using a new public API
    on a QUIC connection SSL object
In progress

AI: Tomas to investigate Cloudflare interop for QUIC
In progress

AI: Hugo to investigate getting the DDD demos working with
    our current code
Not done

AI: OTC to read Stephen's proposed API changes for ECH
Not done

AI: Matt to gather more information on the costs and resources
    which would be required to organise an OTC F2F, send questionairre
    to OTC list
In progress

AI: Matt to send a 3.1 release announcement today to openssl-project
Done

AI: Tomas to raise public issues for security issues #77, #78
Done

AI: Matt to read #80 and decide whether to follow up with David.
Done

AI: Richard to add something to the security process about adding CVE IDs to
    commits; to mention fixes and related trailers
Not done

AI: Richard to consider if we can make the security process public.
Not done

AI: Dmitry to add a hold on #20375
Not done

AI: Dmitry to raise a specific public issue about excessive number of calls in
    callgrind
Done

** Review issues with OTC hold (30 minutes)

#20441: Add option to FIPS module to enforce EMS check during KDF TLS1_PDF
    OTC: This is OK to go into 3.1.

#20412: Improve the performance of EVP_PKCS82PKEY_ex
    OTC: This can be backported to 3.0.

#20421: 3.0 PEM reading perf cherry picks: PR 17881, 18354 and 17921
    OTC: this should not go into 3.0, performance fixes are against our
         stable release policy and this would require an exception.
         The intention for 3.1 is to wrap up the performance fixes and
         for people to migrate to it.

** Release discussion

Three outstanding coverity issues, two of which do apply to 3.1
    Not checking return value from an upref call
    Do they need to be fixed?
        -> Yes, but not a blocker for the release.
        -> Fix can also be backported to 3.0.

PKCSv1.5 padding not allowed for key transport in FIPS
    Vote: Release 3.1.0 final on Tuesday the 14th of March 2023 if
        CI builds have been clean for two days

    Vote passed.

Can the blogpost be published?
    OTC: No objections

** Review outstanding security issues

We discussed outstanding security issues.

** Review draft technical policies

AI: OTC to review the updated new design process policy proposal

Nothing to discuss.

** DRBG discussion

#20437: Don't force DRBG reseed on parent reseed
#20414: What is the reason for this code?

NIST SP 800-90C 3pd 2.4.2 DRBG Reseeding, Prediction Resistance and Recovery
                          from Compromise

When a DRBG is reseeded in response to a FIPS 'prediction resistant' request,
all other DRBGs are reseeded on next use, including DRBGs which belong to other
threads. This is good for security but potentially poses a performance issue.

    Proposal: Document the potential performance issues with using prediction
              resistance.

** AOB

We discussed a potential committer candidate.

** New and carried over action items [transported from above]:

AI: Richard to create instructions on how to add an OTC member.

AI: Matt to create a proposal on return values and return value types for new code.

AI: Hugo to update the EC compression compatibility testing PR
    to test fewer curves. Use original commit message for Nicola's
    patch

AI: Hugo to propose possible solutions to make BIO_dgram more safe

AI: Hugo to revise CSM to allow application to artifically
    inject incoming QUIC datagrams using a new public API
    on a QUIC connection SSL object

AI: Tomas to investigate Cloudflare interop for QUIC

AI: Hugo to investigate getting the DDD demos working with
    our current code

AI: OTC to read Stephen's proposed API changes for ECH

AI: Matt to gather more information on the costs and resources
    which would be required to organise an OTC F2F, send questionairre
    to OTC list

AI: Richard to add something to the security process about adding CVE IDs to
    commits; to mention fixes and related trailers

AI: Richard to consider if we can make the security process public.

AI: Dmitry to add a hold on #20375

AI: OTC to review the updated new design process policy proposal
